Note:  This is actually the license for the book Graphic Java.  Section 3
below pertains to the Graphic Java Toolkit.


IMPORTANT -- READ CAREFULLY BEFORE OPENING SEALED CD-ROM. By opening the sealed 
package containing the CD-ROM, you indicate your acceptance of the following Sun
Microsystems, Inc.  License Agreement.

SUN MICROSYSTEMS LICENSE AGREEMENT

This is a legal agreement between the purchaser of this book/CD-ROM package 
("You") and Sun Microsystems, Inc.  By opening the sealed CD-ROM you are 
agreeing to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  If you do not agree to the
terms of this agreement, promptly return the unopened book/CD-ROM package to the
place you obtained it for a full refund.

SOFTWARE LICENSE

1.      Grant of License:       Sun Microsystems grants to you ("Licensee") a 
non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use the Sun Microsystems software 
programs included on the CD-ROM without fee. The software is in "use" on a 
computer when it is loaded into the temporary memory (i.e. RAM) or installed 
into the permanent memory (e.g. hard disk, CD-ROM, or other storage device). 
You may network the software or otherwise use it on more than one computer or 
computer terminal at the same time.

2.      Copyright:  The CD-ROM is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems, Inc. and is 
protected by United States copyright laws and international treaty provisions. 
Therefore, you must treat the CD-ROM like any other copyrighted material. 
Individual software programs on the CD-ROM are copyrighted by their respective 
owners and may require separate licensing. The Java Development Kit is 
copyrighted by Sun Microsystems, Inc. and is covered by a separate license 
agreement provided on the CD-ROM.

3.      Graphic Java Toolkit (GJT) and Sample Code:  Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
grants you a royalty-free right to reproduce and distribute the GJT and sample 
code provided that you: (a) distribute the GJT and sample code only in 
conjunction with and as a part of your software application; (b) do not use Sun 
Microsystems, Inc. or its authors' names, logos, or trademarks to market your 
software product; and (c) agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend Sun 
Microsystems, Inc. and its authors and suppliers from and against any claims or 
lawsuits, including attorneys fees, that arise or result from the use or 
distribution of your software product.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

The SOFTWARE (including instructions for its use) is provided "AS IS" WITHOUT 
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.  SUN MICROSYSTEMS and any distributor of the SOFTWARE 
FURTHER DISCLAIM ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE 
ENTIRE RISK ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE OR 
DOCUMENTATION REMAINS WITH YOU.

IN NO EVENT SHALL SUN MICROSYSTEMS, ITS AUTHORS, OR ANY ONE ELSE INVOLVED IN THE
CREATION, PRODUCTION, OR DELIVERY OF THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES 
WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS,
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) 
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION, 
EVEN IF SUN MICROSYSTEMS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, 
BECAUSE SOME STATES/COUNTRIES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF LIMITATION OF 
LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT 
APPLY TO YOU.

U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS

The SOFTWARE and documentation are provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  Use, 
duplication, or disclosure is subject to restrictions as set forth in 
subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of The Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software 
clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial 
Computer Software -- Restricted Rights 48 CFR 52.227-19.

Should you have any questions concerning this Agreement, or if you desire to 
contact Sun Microsystems for any reason, please write:  Sun Microsystems, Inc., 
2550 Garcia Avenue, Mountain View, CA  94043. 

Copyright: (c) 1997,  Sun Microsystems, Inc.


