.\" @(#)XRotTextExtents 5.0 25/4/93; Copyright (c) 1993 Alan Richardson
.TH XRotDrawAlignedString 3 "25 Apr 1993" "xvertext routines"
.SH NAME
XRotTextExtents, XRotSetBoundingBoxPad \- obtain and
manipulate text bounding boxes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B XPoint *XRotTextExtents(dpy, font, angle, 
.B x, y, text, align)
.br
.B Display *dpy;
.br
.B XFontStruct *font;
.br
.B float angle;
.br
.B int x, y;
.br
.B char *text;
.br
.B int align;
.PP
.B void XRotSetBoundingBoxPad(pad)
.br
.B int pad;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i     
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIfont\fP 1i
Pointer to an XFontStruct structure.
.IP \fIangle\fP 1i
Angle in degrees between direction of text and horizontal
(anticlockwise is positive).
.IP \fIx\,\ y\fP 1i
Coordinates whose relation to the position of the painted text is given
by \fIalign\fP.
.IP \fItext\fP 1i
A character string.
.IP \fIalign\fP 1i
Describes the alignment with which the string would be drawn.
.IP \fIpad\fP 1i
Pad out subsequent bounding boxes out by this number of pixels.
.I Pad
must be greater than or equal to zero.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The function
.I XRotTextExtents
computes the bounding box which would surround a line or block of
text if one of the drawing functions, such as
.I XRotDrawAlignedText,
were used to paint it.
The arguments
.I dpy,
.I font,
.I angle,
.I x, y,
.I text and
.I align
have the same meanings as when passed to
the drawing functions. 
.PP
The bounding box is returned as a
.I XPoint
array with five members. The first four specify the coordinates of
the four bounding box corners, in a clockwise sense. The last member
duplicates the first to produce a closed figure. This list can then 
be sent to 
.I XDrawLines
straight away to draw the bounding box.
When the XPoint array is no longer required, the user should free
it with a call to
.I free.
.PP
The function
.I XRotSetBoundingBoxPad
causes all subsequent bounding boxes to be padded out by 
.I pad
pixels. This often produces more pleasing boxes around text.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.I XRotTextExtents
returns a null pointer if something went wrong.
.SH SEE ALSO
XRotDrawString,
XRotDrawImageString,
XRotDrawAlignedString,
XRotDrawAlignedImageString.

