.\" @(#)xvertext 5.0 18/4/93; Copyright (c) 1993 Alan Richardson
.TH xvertext 3 "19 Apr 1993" "xvertext routines"
.SH NAME
xvertext - a collection of functions for rendering rotated text in an
X window
.SH GENERAL
As of version 5.0 there are 8 functions in the xvertext package 
intended for general use. These are
.I XRotVersion,
.I XRotSetMagnification,
.I XRotSetBoundingBoxPad,
.I XRotTextExtents,
.I XRotDrawString,
.I XRotDrawImageString,
.I XRotDrawAlignedString
and
.I XRotDrawAlignedImageString.
.SH REMARK
Rotation at any angle is an improvement over the vertical text
available in version 2.0. Some functions have been deleted from that
version, and some remaining functions
.I have had their arguments changed.
.PP
As of version 4.0, a cache has been added to speed up redraws. This 
feature is enabled at compile time.
.SH USAGE
.I XRotVersion 
is used to obtain the current release number and a copyright string.
.PP
.I XRotSetMagnification
is used to indicate with what factor all subsequent fonts should be 
magnified.
.PP
.I XRotTextExtents
is used to obtain the bounding box a string will have when painted in
a particular font at a given angle/position.
.I XRotSetBoundingBoxPad
is used to indicate by how many pixels the bounding box should be
padded out.
.PP
Using the painting routines typically involves three steps: creating 
a GC, loading a font and calling the painting function.
For example:

|
.br
|
.br
GC gc;
.br
XFontStruct *font;
.br
char *fontname=
"lucidasans-bold-18";
.br
.PP
font=XLoadQueryFont(dpy, fontname);
.br
    if(font==NULL) {
        fprintf(stderr, "no font `%s'\\n", fontname);
        font=XLoadQueryFont(dpy, "fixed");
    }
.PP
gc=XCreateGC(dpy, window, NULL, 0);
.br
XSetForeground(dpy, gc, WhitePixel(dpy, DefaultScreen(dpy)));
.br
XSetBackground(dpy, gc, BlackPixel(dpy, DefaultScreen(dpy)));
.PP
XRotDrawAlignedImageString(dpy, font, 45., 
window, gc, 300, 300, "hello", BLEFT);
.br
|
.br
|
.PP
Note that dpy and window are a display connection and a window,
already assumed created.
This code segment obtains an XFontStruct for the font 
"lucidasans-bolditalic-10" if it exists, or "fixed" if not.
A graphics context is created with white foreground and black
background. The string "hello" is then painted at 45 degrees with
bottom left hand corner at (300, 300).
.SH SEE ALSO
XRotVersion,
XRotSetMagnification,
XRotSetBoundingBoxPad,
XRotTextExtents,
XRotDrawString,
XRotDrawImageString,
XRotDrawAlignedString,
XRotDrawAlignedImageString.


