'\" t
.TH build_infinder 1 "24 May 1996" "CIIR, UMass" "INQUERY Document Retrieval"
.SH NAME
build_infinder - Create an
.B InFinder
database concepts database for use in expanding queries with 
related terms.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B build_infinder
.RB [ \-hc ]
.RB [ \-l 
.IR logfile ]
.RB dbname
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B build_infinder
produces an
.B InFinder
concepts database using an intermediate 
.I \.fnd
file produced by a previous run of
.B inparse
using the
.B \-infind concept:feature
command line switch.  The 
.I .fnd
intermediate file is read from standard input to produce an
.B InFinder
Concepts Database with the specified name.  This database may
then be queried to discover related terms and concepts for
query expansion.
.PP
The
.B build_infinder
program is actually a shell script that calls on many Unix utilities
and 
.B INQUERY
programs.  The required Unix utilities include
.B sh, compress, zcat, awk, sort, uniq 
and
.B wc .
.SB INQUERY
exectutbles are
.B inparse, merge_btl, inf_util, parse_inq, mkdoctab, pmerge
and
.B filtera .
Finally an 
.SB InFinder
configuration file,
.I infinder.cf
must also be defined in the directory where the 
.B build_infinder
script is run.
.PP
The
.B build_infinder
process is very demanding of disk space.  It may require 10 times the
space occupied by the collection text files during the build, although
most of this space will be freed after the build process is completed.
This process also tends to run much longer than the typical 
.B inparse
process itself.
.PP
See
.B FILES
below for output files generated by
.BR build_infinder .
.SH OPTIONS
.BR build_infinder
arguments define usage, clean-up tasks, a log file and the base name
of the 
.B InFinder
database to be produced.  See
.B EXAMPLES
section below for illustrations of use.
.TP
.B \-h
Produce a usage description but do not do any processing.
.TP
.B \-c
Clean up temporary files produced during the process on termination.
.TP
.BI -l " logfile"
Define a 
.I logfile
to record the progress of processing.  The default log file is named
.I bi.logPID
where PID is the process ID.
.TP
.B dbname
The base name of the database to be produced from the intermediate file.
The files produced will be the same (no fields) as that produced for any
.B INQUERY
database collection.
.SH FILES
.PP
The output files of this program will be the same as those for any
.B INQUERY
collection database.  There will also be a large number of temporary
files that will remain in the tmp directories defined in the
.I infinder.cf
file.  If the 
.I \-c
option is specified, these files will be removed on process completion.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command will produce a 
.BR mycollection
.B InFinder
database from an intermediate file resulting from a previous run of
.B inparse.
.PP
    %
.B inparse \ mydb \ mycollection.dat \-infind concept:feature
.PP
    %
.B build_infinder \-c \-l infinder.log mydb_concepts
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is normally 0.
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to 
.B inquery-bugs@cs.umass.edu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inparse (1),
and
.B sysadmin.doc
in the documentation directory of the
.B INQUERY
release.
