'\" t
.TH inquery-ip 1 "24 May 1996" "CIIR, UMass" "INQUERY Document Retrieval"
.SH NAME
inquery-ip - TCP/IP 
.SB INQUERY
TTY client interface application.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inquery-ip
.I database
.RB [ \-nostem ]
.RB [ \-recog ]
.RB [ \-norecog ]
.RB [ \-use_recog
.IR recog-name ]
.RB [ \-skip_recog
.IR recog-name ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR filename ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR dirname ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B inquery-ip
is a simply networked client interface application for accessing
.B INQUERY
databases service by an already existing 
.I Connection Server
process.  This interface is identical to the sample stand-alone
TTY program called
.B inquery.
Only this application accesses databases being serviced across a
network.
.SH OPTIONS
.BR inquery-ip's first argument is the 
.I database
name in the form of 
.I host:port:dbname.
The
.I host
is the name of the machine where a Connection Server is running
that is to communicated with.  The
.I port
is the same port number as specified in the
.I -client-portnum
arugment to
.B conn_server_ip
or, if not specified, the default value of 1234 will be used.  Finally the
.I dbname
argument is the full path and base name of the database to which service
is desired.  Commandline options may follow in any order.
.TP
.B \-nostem
Do not perform stemming of any of the queries.  Stopping is disabled as well.
.TP
.B \-recog
Turn ON all query transformers and recognizers
.TP
.B \-norecog
Turn OFF query recognizers.  This is the default.
.TP
.BI \-use_recog " recog-name"
Turn ON the specified recognizer.
.I recog-name
must be the same name as defined in the query transformer table, qscan_table.c.
.TP
.BI \-skip_recog " recog-name"
Turn OFF the specified recognizer or transformer.
.TP
.BI \-w " filename"
Write retrieved documents and scores to the specified output file.  The
default is "docs.out".
.TP
.BI \-o " dirname"
Specify the directory name in which output files are to be placed.
The default is the current directory, "./".
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage description but do not start the process.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command will start an 
.B INQUERY
client interface that will connect with a "/usr/disk1/inquery/data/cacm_dots"
database on a machine called "machine2".  The Connection Server on that
machine was started using a non-default client communication port number
of 1507, so that is what must be specified.
.PP
    %
.B inquery-ip machine2:1507:/usr/disk1/inquery/data/cacm_dots
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to 
.B inquery-bugs@cs.umass.edu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inquery-server (1), " conn_server_ip" (1), " inquery" (1)
and
.B sysadmin.doc
in the documentation directory of the
.SB INQUERY 
release.
