'\" t
.TH inquery 1 "31 July 1996" "CIIR, UMass" "INQUERY Document Retrieval System"
.SH NAME
.B inquery
\- sample tty interface for the 
.B
INQUERY
Document Retrieval System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inquery
.I [db name]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR filename ]
.RB [ \-o 
.IR dirname ]
.RB [ \-dups ]
.RB [ \-nodups ]
.RB [ \-nostem ]
.RB [ \-spelling ]
.RB [ \-top_docs_only ]
.RB [ \-num_top_docs
.IR int ]
.RB [ \-recog ]
.RB [ \-norecog ]
.RB [ \-use_recog
.IR recog-name ]
.RB [ \-skip_recog
.IR recog-name ]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B INQUERY Document Retrieval System
is a probabilistic information retrieval system developed at the University
of Massachusetts.  
.PP
.B inquery
is a sample tty interface to this system.  It allows users to type in queries and 
browse through retrieved documents.  A file containing session results may also be 
produced.  The query given by the user can either be in natural language or in a
more exact structured query language.  The documents returned are listed
in a ranked order based on 
.B INQUERY's
belief that the document satisfies the information need expressed by
the query.
.PP
Batches of queries can be run against databases using the 
batch-mode program 
.B inqueryb.
For more information on this program, see the file
.B inquery.doc
.PP
.B inquery, 
the interactive program, can take a command line argument specifying a 
particular 
.B INQUERY
database to search.  This argument is given as the 
.I basename 
of the database files.  A leading path, giving the location of these files,
is optional.  
.B inquery 
will look for the database files in the current working directory if no
pathname is provided.  Note that 
.B INQUERY 
databases are created with the building tool
.B inbuild,
or with 
.B inparse 
and
.B merge_btl.
.PP
.B inquery
can also be run without arguments, in which case the user is given a
menu listing all the databases in the 
.I $INQDATA 
directory.
.PP 
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.BI \-w " file"
Write the results of the session to 
.IR file .
.TP
.BI \-o " directory"
Specify the directory into which output files will be 
written.  The default is the current directory.
.TP
.B \-dups
Allow duplicate documents to be retrieved (this is the
default).
.TP
.B \-nodups
Prevent duplicate documents from being retrieved.
.TP
.B \-h
Print a usage description and exit.
.TP
.SH QUERY PROCESSING OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-nostem
Turn off stemming of words in the query.  This option is especially
helpful if you are running a query that has already been processed
by 
.BR INQUERY .
.TP
.B \-spelling
Use "spell checking".  
.B inquery
will inform the user of query terms which occur 
.I nowhere
in the database, and thus may be misspelled.
.TP
.B \-top_docs_only
Use only top-docs optimization for processing user queries.
.TP
.BI \-num_top_docs " int"
Maximum number of top-docs to use for query processing.
.I int
may be set to 0 to turn off top-docs processing.  The default
value is 1000.
.SH RECOGNIZER OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-recog
Turns on all query text recognizers.
.TP
.B \-norecog
Turns off all query text recognizers.
.TP
.BI \-use_recog " name"
Turn on a specific recognizer by 
.I name.
.TP
.BI \-skip_recog " name"
Turn off a specific query recognizer by 
.I name.
.LP
These options can be used in combination to select exactly
which query processors to turn on and off.  For example:
.RS
.IP
inquery -norecog -use_recog stop_phrase
.RE
.LP
would make sure that only stop_phrase processing is done on
the query.
.LP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
.B inquery
makes use of the following environment variables:
.TP
.B INQDATA
This directory is searched for 
.B INQUERY 
databases.
.TP
.B DOCSTOPS
This directory is searched for the default stopword list (default.stp)
when a stopword list is not provided or included in the database.
.LP
.SH FILES
.TP
docs.out
Contains retrieved documents which the user saved using interface commands.
.TP
$DOCSTOPS/default.stp
The default stopword list.
.TP
.IR database .inf
The information file for the database.
.TP
.IR database .btl 
 The main database index file.
.TP
.IR database .ndx
The field database index file.
.TP
.IR database .db
The database document directory.
.TP
.IR database .shd
The stopword list with which the database was built.
.TP
.IR database .mft
The table of most frequent terms in the database -- used for caching.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Exit status is normally 0.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Send bug reports to inquery-bugs@cs.umass.edu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.B inbuild (1),
and
.B inquery.doc,
in the release documentation directory.  
.PP
For information about using 
.B inquery 
in a client-server environment, see 
.B inquery-ip(1) 
and
.B inquery-server(1).
.PP
For information about
.B inqueryb, 
see the file
.B inquery.doc
in the release documentation directory.  

