'\" t
.TH inquery-server 1 "24 May 1996" "CIIR, UMass" "INQUERY Document Retrieval"
.SH NAME
inquery-server - TCP/IP 
.SB INQUERY
database Server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inquery-server
.I database
.RB [ \-stoplist
.I stop-file ]
.RB [ \-cc_on ]
.RB [ \-cc_off ]
.RB [ \-conn_id
.IR socket-file ]
.RB [ \-logfile
.IR filename ]
.RB [ \-top_docs_only ]
.RB [ \-num_top_dos
.IR int ]
.RB [ \-cs_host ]
.RB [ \-cs_portnum
.IR port-num ]
.RB [ \-tlog ]
.RB [ \-notlog ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B inquery-server
is the 
.B INQUERY
Server process that is either started by the user AFTER a Connection
Server is running, or will be started by the Connection Server to
service a database request by a client application.
.SH OPTIONS
.BR inquery-server's required argument is the name of the 
.I database
to be serviced.  This argument and other optional commandline switches
may appear in any order on the commandline.
.TP
.BI \-stoplist " stop-file"
Define a 
.I stop-file
containing a list of stopwords to be excluded from queries.
The default stoplist is $DOCSTOPS/default.stp.
.TP
.B \-cc_on
Use concurrency control during processing.
.TP
.B \-cc_off
Do not use concurrency control during processing.  This is
the default.
.TP
.BI \-conn_id " socket-file"
Define the socket file through which IPC communications proceeds.
.I
Socket-file
is the same as defined for the 
.I -server-upath
argument when invoking the Connection Server.  The default socket
file name is /tmp/INQUERY.server.
.TP
.BI \-logfile " filename"
Specify
.I filename
as the output log file.  This is the file to which stderr will
be directed.
.TP
.B \-top_docs_only
Use top-docs query processing optimization.  This is off by default.
.TP
.BI \-num_top_docs " int"
Specify the number of top-docs entries to use during query processing.
An
.I int
value of 0 deactivates top-docs processing.  The default value is 1000.
.TP
.BI \-cs_host " hostname"
Specify the name of the host running the Connection Server that will be
managing the connection.  The default is the local host.
.TP
.BI \-cs_portnum " port-num"
The port number to use for communications with the Connection Server.
This is the same port number as defined in the
.I -server-portnum
commandline option when invoking the Connection Server.
.TP
.B -tlog
Log Server output between two log files.  The log files are "logfile".1
and "logfile".2 where "logfile" is defined in the
.I -logfile
option described above.
.TP
.B -notlog
Log all output to only one log file.  This is the default.
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage description but do not start the process.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command will start an 
.B INQUERY
Server start database service to a "/usr/disk1/inquery/data/cacm_dots"
database.  It will communicate to the Connection Server running on a 
machine called "machine4" with an IPC socket named "/tmp/INQUERY.sally".
.PP
    %
.B inquery-server /usr/disk1/inquery/data/cacm_dots
.B \-cs_host machine4 -conn_id /tmp/INQUERY.sally &"
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to 
.B inquery-bugs@cs.umass.edu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR conn_server_ip (1)
and
.B sysadmin.doc
in the documentation directory of the
.SB INQUERY 
release.
