'\" t
.TH set_col 1 "24 May 1996" "CIIR, UMass" "INQUERY Document Retrieval"
.SH NAME
set_col - Set the location of a text file included in the specified
.B INQUERY
database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B set_col
.RB database
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.B set_col
defines the full path name [and name] of a text file used in an
.B INQUERY
database.  One may use
.B list_cols
to determine the current value of the text file location.  This
function is required when moving an
.B INQUERY
collection from the location where it resided when the database
was built.  If the location and name of the collection file is
not redefined, the documents from the files will not be viewable
after retrieval.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.BR set_col
takes only an existing
.B database
name argument.
.TP
.B database
An existing
.B INQUERY
database base name.  This may include the path to the database
file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following command will set the new location of the CACM
database source collection file.  The location has moved from
/usr/disk5/collections/cacm_dots.dat to /usr/disk1/new_collections/
cacm_dots.dat.  First list the current location and then move it
and print out the changed location.
.PP
	%
.B list_cols /usr/inquery/data/cacm/cacm_dots
.BI	/usr/disk5/collections/cacm_dots.dat
.PP
	%
.B set_col /usr/disk1/new_collections/cacm_dots.dat
.PP
	%
.B list_cols /usr/inquery/data/cacm/cacm_dots
.BI	/usr/disk1/new_collections/cacm_dots.dat
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to 
.B inquery-bugs@cs.umass.edu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR list_cols (1)
and
.B sysadmin.doc.
in the documentation directory of the
.B INQUERY 
release.
